# Datasets of Neuropsychological Language Tests in Brazilian Portuguese (DNLT-BP)
Data from these datasets were collected from participants in clinical or academic studies and research, by reading and signing the Informed Consent Form, and the research was evaluated and approved by the Research Ethics Committees of the institutions to which they are linked. It is stated that the datasets containing the participants' data are being made available with full confidentiality of the participants' identity, not containing their names or document numbers, or any other information that allows their individual identification does not guarantee the confidentiality of the participants' identity. These datasets are for the sole and exclusive purpose of serving as a source for research and / or academic studies, for clinical purposes or the like, and their use is explicitly prohibited for purposes other than those specified herein, other purposes than those specified herein. not these, under penalty of applying the punishments provided for by law. The user of the data contained herein represents knowledge and agreement with these conditions, under penalty of liability and application of penalties provided by law. Therefore, its use by third parties can only be done for the same purposes, which are research and clinical, and other purpose is improper (**License CC-BY-SA-NC**).


## The Wallet Story from ABCD (Arizona Battery for Communication Disorders)
ABCD is a standardized test battery for the comprehensive assessment and screening of dementia. It includes 17 subtests that evaluate linguistic expression, linguistic comprehension, verbal episodic memory via immediate/delayed recall of stories, visuospatial construction, and mental status. 

The subtest which is important for our study is the evaluation of the episodic memory, which is composed of the immediate and late retelling of a memorized story, the Wallet Story.   This story was translated and adapted to Brazilian Portuguese by Danielle Rüegg, Isabel Maranhão de Carvalho, Leticia Lessa Mansur and Márcia Radanovic, and was applied  and collected by the team coordinated by Professor Leticia Lessa Mansur at the University of São Paulo Medical School to 23 elders with MCI and 12 healthy aging adults; totaling 70 narratives. This test has 17 units of information, with possible alternatives, with 17 being its maximum score.

## The Cinderella Dataset
The Cinderella dataset consists of spontaneous speech narratives produced during a test to elicit narrative discourse with visual stimuli, using a book composed of sequenced pictures based on the Cinderella Story. In the test, an individual verbally tells the story to the examiner based on the pictures. The narrative is manually transcribed by a trained annotator who scores the narrative by counting the number of recalled propositions/units of information; there are 28 informational units to be recalled, presented in 23 pictures. This dataset consists of 60 narratives from Brazilian Portuguese speakers (20 controls, 20 with AD, and 20 with amnestic MCI (aMCI)),  diagnosed at the University of São Paulo Medical School. It was applied  and collected by the team coordinated by Professor Leticia Lessa Mansur at the University of São Paulo Medical School.

## The Dog Story and Lucia Story Datasets from BALE
BALE (Battery of Language Assessment in Aging) is a standardized battery with norms for the healthy elders Brazilian population illiterate, with low (2 to 8 years of schooling) and high (9 years or more) education, from 60 to 90 years old.
BALE provides the academy and clinic with standardized and validated tasks, filling an important gap in terms of tasks validated for Brazilian Portuguese, specially at the discourse level. It was conceived by adaptation of other tasks, according to psycholinguistic criteria, including imageability, frequency, animability, extension, among others, such as cultural issues. It consists of 10 linguistic tasks, assessing from the word level, in the naming task, for example, to the discourse level. One of its differentials is to evaluate discourse in four types of narrative texts, especially at the production level, but with the implicit textual comprehension as well. This battery was chosen because its aim is to allow for its administration to elder people who are illiterate and/or of low educational level, who represent the majority of the aged sample assisted by the public health system in Brazil.


The Dog Story and Lucia Story are two of the four narrative texts from the BALE  instrument. The Dog Story dataset is composed of transcriptions from the oral narrative production test based on the presentation of a set of seven pictures telling a story of a boy who hides a dog that he found on the street. This dataset consists of 106 narrative texts from Brazilian Portuguese speakers, where there are 82 healthy aging adults, 12 with AD, and 12 with MCI. BALE also includes a task of retelling and text comprehension of an orally presented story called Lucia Story. This test has 24 units of information, with possible alternatives, with 24 being its maximum score. This retelling test was applied to 9 Alzheimer's individuals and 80 healthy aging adults. 

Both datasets were collected by the team coordinated by Professor Dr. Lilian Cristine Hübner of the School of Humanities of the Pontifical Catholic University (PUC) of Rio Grande do Sul, PUCRS.
